---
layout: post
title: Getting started towards your financial freedom
comments: true
tags:
- Investing
- Finance
- Asset Allocation
- Portfolio
---

Just like every other techie who has no relation with the world of finances, working towards managing my own finances was not there at all in my list of priorities. But a chain of events forced me to dive into the field. To my surprise I am presently writing this blogpost on topic which I never expected.

> Do not work for the money, let the money work for you.

The aforementioned quote from _Rich Dad, Poor Dad_ made me to dive into the world of finances. Though, I was inspired by the book to learn about managing my own finances and importance of the same, I struggled alot initially where to start with. So this blogpost is all about the basic questions with which I struggled before getting started.

##Why should I learn to manage my finances?
If someone tells you to give less than half an hour a day in return of the following:
* Never have to worry about losing your day job
* A better lifestyle
* A guarantee of retirement earlier than your friends

Would you agree to give that someone your half an hour a day?
I would happily if there is not *conditions apply associated with it.

That someone is your finances.

##How to start with managing your own finances?
The first and foremost important point in the whole process is fixing a percentage of your earning towards you Investments(Yes, not savings)
Now you have got money to Invest but you don't know what to do with that money?

<!-- Now you will say that sounds good on paper but people loose money all the time -->

##Myths related to stock market

## Investmensts vs Speculation
When one of my relatives lost his job and all the money in 2008 market crash **Stock Market** became synonymous to **Gambling** for me. People who stay away from stock markets percieve 



## Why 96% of actively managed mutual funds fail to provide better results than market?
Brokerage, Tax, Increasing amount of money in the fund (open funds), Fees
## Why one should invest in stock markets?
In a country like India where fixed deposit(bond) rates stays close to 7-8% stock markets does not sounds very exciting options. But I will give you four reasons why every one should invest in them.

### Better Returns

### Inflation

### Tax Harvesting

### 