---
layout: post
title: Getting started towards your financial freedom
comments: true
tags:
- Investing
- Finance
- Asset Allocation
- Portfolio
---

Just like every other techie who has no relation with the world of finances, working towards managing my own finances was not there at all in my list of priorities. But a chain of events forced me to dive into the field. To my surprise I am presently writing this blogpost on the topic which I never expected.

> Do not work for the money, let the money work for you

The aforementioned quote from _Rich Dad, Poor Dad_ made me to learn about Finance. Though, I was inspired by the book to learn about managing my money, I struggled a lot initially with a lot of basic quesions. This blogpost is all about the basic questions with which I struggled before getting started.

## Why should I learn to manage my finances?
If someone tells you to give less than an hour a month in return of the following:
* Never have to worry about losing your day job
* A better lifestyle
* A guarantee of retirement earlier than your friends

Would you agree to give that someone your half an hour a day?

I would happily if there is not *conditions apply associated with it.

That someone is your **finances**.

## How to start with managing your own finances?
The first and foremost important point in the whole process is fixing a percentage of your earning towards you Investments(Yes, not savings)

#### Now you have got money to Invest but you don't know what to do with that money?

Benjamin Graham, one of the greatest investor recommends splitting your investments equally into Bonds and Stocks. This approach helps in balacing your porfolio towards market risk and gains. For more details on Investments and Portfolio managment have a look at [this]({{ site.baseurl }}post2.html). 

To get your hands on stock markets one can open a demat account at any brokerage firm. I opened a demat account at Zerodah mainly because of its easy to use user interface for Indian markets.
<!-- * Best way to own the a complete market for a passive investor is to invest in Index Funds
 -->
## Why should one take risk on Stocks when you can get good return on your fixed deposits?
Fixed depsits are very popular options for common man in India due to its low risk factors but consider the follwoing points:
* Low returns of about 8-9 %
* Inflation can negate your fixed deposits (risk does not sound imminent to most people which is why people buy FD's)
* They are Taxable
* Premature Closure leads to losses
* They are not backed by any assets in comparison to bonds

## What is the difference between Stocks, Bonds and Fixed Deposits?

|                 | Bonds         | Fixed Deposits   | Stocks     
| --------------- | :-----------: | :--------------: | :------------: 
| Safety    	  | Safe    	  | Highly Safe      | Market Risk
| Liquidity       | Low           | Incurs Penalty   |Very Liquid 
| Returns   	  | 10-12%        | 8-9%             | 12-18%\*   
| Availability    | Banks,SE      | Banks            | SE       

SE = Stock Exchanges

\* Depends upon market but this figure is approximately accepted

<!--## Investmenst vs Speculation
When one of my relatives lost his job and all the money in 2008 market crash **Stock Market** became synonymous to **Gambling** for me.
 
An investment operation is one which, upon thorough analysis promises safety of principle and an adequate return. Operation not meeting these requirements are speculative. Invesor should be able to keep his investments atleast for an year without worrying about vicissitudes of the market. 


### Inflation
<!-- Now you will say that sounds good on paper but people loose money all the time -->





