---
layout: post
title: Principles of Investment
comments: true
tags:
- Investing
- Finance
- Asset Allocation
- Portfolio
---

This post summarized four principles of Investing followed by some facts related to Equity markets taken from <em>The Intelligent Investor</em> by Benjamin Graham.

### Asset Allocation
_Don't put all your eggs in one basket_ is the mantra behind the art of asset allocation. A good asst allocation strategy will keep your confidence up during economic ups and downs along with a promise of better return. Here’s the asset allocation of Tony Robbins All-Weather Portfolio that Ray Dalio (founder investment firm of Bridgewater Associates) came up with for this strategy:

    30% Stocks
    40% Long-Term Bonds
    15% Intermediate-Term Bonds
    7.5% Gold
    7.5% Commodities

And here are the relevant statistics for the 30 year period from 1984-2013 courtesy of Robbins:

    9.7% annual returns
    You would have made money 86% of the time (so only four down years)
    Average loss of just 1.9%
    Worst loss was -3.9%
    Volatility was 7.6%

\* These return are according to US market. We can Expect better return from Indian markets using the same portfolio.

### Dollar Cost Averaging
Dollar cost averaging is investing same amount of money every month in your portfolio. This takes care of ups and downs in the market and protects your from the speculation of <em>timing the market</em> which is essentially futile. Even, Investors like Benjamin Graham says that no one can time the markets.

[Example of dollar cost averging.](http://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/dollarcostaveraging.asp)

### Rebalance
Rebalance is realigning the weights of your assests present in your portfolio. This should be done annually to mantain your portfolio.

### Tax Harvesting
Tax loss harvesting is the practice of selling an Investment which has experienced a loss in order to get Tax Deductions. The sold Invesntment can be replaced with similar one. This process involves certain regulations and might need help of a fiduciary or Charted Accountant.

<!-- ## Why 96% of actively managed mutual funds fail to provide better results than market?
Brokerage, Tax, Increasing amount of money in the fund (open funds), Fees
## Why one should invest in stock markets?
In a country like India where fixed deposit(bond) rates stays close to 7-8% stock markets does not sounds very exciting options. But I will give you four reasons why every one should invest in them. -->